couchbase-cli-rebalance(1)
==========================

NAME
----
couchbase-cli-rebalance - Rebalances data across nodes in a cluster


SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'couchbase-cli rebalance' [--cluster <url>] [--username <user>]
	  [--password <password>] [--server-remove <servers>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Rebalances data across all servers in the cluster. This command should be used
after servers are added, removed, or failed over from the cluster in order to
ensure that each node in the cluster has a similar "balanced" amount of data.

To add servers use the linkcbdoc:couchbase-server-add[1] subcommand. To remove
servers specify the list of servers to remove using the --server-remove option
in the rebalance subcommand. To failover servers see the
linkcbdoc:couchbase-failover[1] subcommand. After running the
linkcbdoc:couchbase-server-add[1] or linkcbdoc:couchbase-failover[1] subcommands
ensure that you run the rebalance command to ensure data is balance dacross the
cluster.

OPTIONS
-------

include::part-common-options.txt[]

--server-remove <servers>
	A comma separated list of servers to remove from the cluster. The each
	server in the list should correspond to the hostname or IP address of that
	server.

include::part-host-formats.txt[]

EXAMPLES
--------

When to rebalance a new node into the cluster we would first add a server using
the linkcbdoc:couchbase-server-add[1] command and the we would start the balance
with the rebalance command.

	$ couchbase-cli server-add -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --server-add 192.168.1.6:8091 \
	 --server-add-username Administrator --server-add-password password

	$ couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
	 --password password

If we just want to remove a server from the cluster and start a rebalance we
would just need to run the rebalance command.

	$ couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --server-remove 192.168.1.6:8091

We could also remove multiple servers at once and run the rebalance with the
command below. Note that rebalance will be faster removing multiple servers as
once as opposed to removing them one at a time.

	$ couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --server-remove 192.168.1.6:8091,192.168.1.7:8091

To add a server and remove another server we would again need to invoke the
linkcbdoc:couchbase-server-add[1] command before starting the rebalance as
shown below.

	$ couchbase-cli server-add -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --server-add 192.168.1.6:8091 \
	 --server-add-username Administrator --server-add-password password

	$ couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --server-remove 192.168.1.7:8091

If you add one server to the cluster and remove a server during the same
rebalance Couchbase will do a "swap rebalance". This means data from the node
being removed is moved to the one being added. This means the rebalance will
only occur between two nodes in the cluster as opposed to shifting data around
the entire cluster.

ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
---------------------------------------

include::part-common-env.txt[]

SEE ALSO
--------
linkcbdoc:couchbase-failover[1].
linkcbdoc:couchbase-recovery[1].
linkcbdoc:couchbase-server-add[1].

include::part-footer.txt[]
