couchbase-cli-server-readd(1)
=============================

NAME
----
couchbase-cli-server-readd - Adds a server back to the cluster after a failover

SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'couchbase-cli server-readd' [--cluster <url>] [--username <username>]
	  [--password <password>] [--server-add <servers>] [--group-name <name>]
	  [--server-username <username>] [--server-password <password>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

DEPRECATED: This command was in 5.0.0 deprecated and will be removed in future
releases. Please use the linkcbdoc:couchbase-cli-recovery[1] subcommand which
provides similar functionality to this command.

The server-readd subcommand is used to add a server back to the cluster. This
operation is useful after a server is failed over and also when a server is
removed from the cluster for maintainance.

When a server is failed over and removed from the cluster it may only be able to
be added back to the cluster. And example of this is when a server loses power.
This server might get failed over and removed from the cluster, but once power
is restored to the server you may want to add it back to the cluster. The
server-readd subcommand will remove the data from the server, but keep the
server configuration and add the server back into the cluster.

Another use case is taking a server out of the cluster for maintainance. This
is done by gracefully failing over a server to ensure there is no data loss.
The administrator can then perform mainainance on the removed server and add it
back with the server-readd command.

It is also possible to add a server back to the cluster without removing the
data and instead having the server recover data from where it left off. This is
called delta recovery and is available from the linkcbdoc:couchbase-recovery[1]
subcommand.

Note that after the server-readd subcommand is run you must rebalance the
cluster. See the linkcbdoc:couchbase-rebalance[1] command for more information
on rebalancing a cluster.

OPTIONS
-------

include::part-common-options.txt[]

--server-add <servers>::
	A command separated list of servers to readd. The each server should
	correspond to the hostname or IP address of a server to be added back to
	the cluster.

--server-username <username>::
	Adding a server back to the cluster can only be done by a user with the
	appropriate credentials. This flag specifies the username for a user who
	has the ability to modify the cluster topology on the server being added
	back.

--server-password <password>::
	Adding a server back to the cluster can only be done by a user with the
	appropriate credentials. This flag specifies the password for a user who
	has the ability to modify the cluster topology on the server being added
	back.

--group-name <name>::
	The name of the group to add the server to.

include::part-host-formats.txt[]

EXAMPLES
--------

If we have a server at 192.168.1.6:8091 that we want to add back and that
server has credentials that allow us to change the cluster topology with
"Administrator" as the username and "password" as the password we would run the
following command.

	$ couchbase-cli server-readd -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --server-readd 192.168.1.6:8091 \
	 --server-username Administrator --server-password password

If we need to add back multiple servers then we would run the following command.

	$ couchbase-cli server-readd -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --server-readd 192.168.1.6:8091,192.168.1.7:8091 \
	 --server-username Administrator --server-password password

If we wanted the servers being added back to the cluster to be a part of the
"East" group we would run the following command

	$ couchbase-cli server-readd -c 192.168.1.5:8091 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --server-readd 192.168.1.6:8091 --group-name East \
	 --server-username Administrator --server-password password

ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
---------------------------------------

include::part-common-env.txt[]

SEE ALSO
--------
linkcbdoc:couchbase-rebalance[1].
linkcbdoc:couchbase-recovery[1].
linkcbdoc:couchbase-server-add[1].

include::part-footer.txt[]
